The Joe Rogan experience. Let's talk about endurance.
So there are different aspects to endurance.
And
so there's cardio and there is the low,
the peripheral endurance in the muscles, muscular endurance.
So first let's discuss, how do we develop cardio?
Let's discuss how we develop endurance in the muscle.
The best,
the healthiest way to develop your cardio is just
steady state exercise like running at a particular,
particular speed does not do fast as very simple way to develop cardio
for most people. It is for most people. It is. And so here's, what's happening.
What's happening is, um,
the hardest stretching when you increase your heart rate up to a certain point,
the heart starts stretching more and it stretches more and more.
So that increases the stroke volume.
So pretty much you've got a bigger heart and as good,
that works opt to
not quite 90% of heart rate.
When you start a red lining your heart rate,
when you start getting to 90% and higher,
the heart does not have time to relax fully.
So it really pretty much is twitching.
So you're no longer really stretching that heart.
So you want to be training at the metabolic
intensity. That's much lower something.
We can pretty much sustain a conversation.
So let's say you're running and talking to your buddy.
That's what you want to stay to the develop endurance that will to develop,
to stress your heart. That's the basic method. So that's one method.
So the second method is interval training. So,
and the interval training for the heart was developed by Germans
decades ago. And these guidelines still stand. So here's what they figured out.
They figured out that your well,
we know that this various systems in your body have inertia. So for instance,
notice that when you're running hard and you stopped,
your heart's still beating hard.
And then maybe after 10 seconds after there's a sudden drop right in there, sir,
is that inertia.
So the Germans figured out if you get your heart rate up to about 85, 90%,
which is it's hard, but it's still not maximum.
And then you switched to walking or jogging.
So the heart is still beating and there is this extra volume, uh,
of blood is moving in a stretches to heart. So it works really well.
So you can use the intro method as well, but it's,
it was found it's used best after, um,
after a period of steady state training,
it's very demanding on the body and it's not, it's just,
it's too easy to have problems with the heart.
If you started using it prematurely,
then there's also such a thing as high heart rate
under heavy loads. So in this particular case,
we're talking about dynamic exercises. So as dynamic exercise, running, uh,
bicycling, skiing, even light kettlebell swings,
that's dynamic exercise. When you start doing static exercise,
let's say you're trying to do squats, heavy squats for, you know,
to get your cardio. So to say,
that's not the best idea because that interferes
with the blood flow, that, that something called afterload versus preload,
the heart gets thicker instead of the heart gets, you know,
gets stretched and bigger. So it's not the optimal way to train the heart.
You can, again,
the simple way you can use a dynamic
exercise in interval type training or repeat training.
In this case to train your heart is to do an exercise that's dynamic
in nature to raise your heart rate to about,
let's say, 80, 90%, which would be 80,
90%. It would be where you can say maybe a couple of words, you know,
you're not, you're not dying yet.
You can still answer a question and then you just walk around and you do it
again. So that's a simple way of how much time walking.
Around. That.
Depends that toll. It depends on who you are.
How fast your heart rate drops back down. And what do you want to like,
is there a number, do you want to keep it in the one forties,
the one fifties is dependent upon your age?
Yeah. In this particular case, you would do, you would drop it down.
The regional guidelines were done for young people. Those 120, 130 beats,
or you're talking about 60, 65%. And pretty much,
if you were just looking at being able to pass the talk test,
which means you can talk, you know, uh, short sentences,
I can speak in short, something like that. Right? So for example,
you do a set of 10 swings,
really powerful with a kettlebell walk around a little bit.
When you feel that you can speak again, you do it again, do it again.
So that's a simple way of doing that,
but the heart is only a very small part of endurance.
So we definitely need to do some cardio for health and athletes definitely
need to do for their performance. But, um,
what we're really need to focus on is you need mitochondria.
So mitochondria in the, in the muscle cell.
So that's where energy is being converted to aerobically,
which means efficiently.
So if you look at the way you muscle
uses energy, so he will get this energy with food converted,
it goes down eventually the final, uh, currency,
so to say is so something called ATP, but it's only used, you know,
you only have it for a few seconds. So it has to be re reloaded.
So we have three main energy systems. So have the, uh,
creatine phosphate system. It's very powerful,
but it's only going to go for just some seconds. And as clean burning,
we have aerobic system. That's not powerful at all, but it's longer lasting.
And we have the glycolytic system that's kind of in between that dumps a lot of
acid and other fatigued metabolites in there.
So what we want to do as we want to develop these
mitochondria in our muscles, it's easy to do a slow fibers,
and it's a little more involved in fast fibers.
I'll tell you how we can do that, but it can be done. So what we're looking for,
instead of trying to trash the muscle with acid,
we're trying to train in a way that to produce less
acid.
And then only before the competition read before the competition,
couple of weeks out, you do a couple of,
kind of a smokers like that to get yourself used to that. That's saying,
so the way we develop mitochondria,
which means make your muscle oxidative,
make your muscle enduring and not polluting in slow fibers.
It's simply moving a ride below in Arabic threshold.
So on aerobic threshold,
it's that intensity at which you,
you know, acid is accumulating just up to a certain point.
It stays at that steady state.
Then you can keep disposing of that for a while for quite a while.
As soon as you go above it, very rapidly, you crash.
So
running ride below that aerobic threshold is
the primary training method for endurance athletes.
And how do you know that you ran the threshold when you failing the talk test?
That's a simple way to do that.
And it's very interesting that endurance athletes,
even though who are not necessarily well-educated,
they can attend to grab it, taste her that intensity.
And so what happens is we are producing just small amounts of acid
and the body finally is able to produce less and less.
So that's how we train our aerobic. Um, I'm sorry.
That's how we train mitochondria in slow fibers for a fast fibers.
It becomes something more interesting.
So the conditions,
the conditions for making the mitochondria, uh,
be able to handle more traffic without producing as much acid
is pushed them just to the edge of a sudden dosas Jess,
just to the edge and dude over and over and over. So
[inaudible], uh,  back in the eighties for God
that that's the guy who invented plyometrics and so on. So he figured out, so here's what we do. Imagine that you are sprinting
less
, you sprinting for five, seven seconds, and then you were just walking and you're sprinting again, and you're just walking, but you're doing that. You measuring your blood
, uh,
Lactaid, and it still keeps below the threshold. And you sustain that for, let's say 40 minutes. So think of this for a second. So you're sprinting very intensely, but you do you
stop
before you start burning, you get to the point of just light, muscular fatigue and you
dude, over and over and over.
So if we talk about the coaching terminology,
it's a repeat training versus interval training.
So what is interval training? Barbie Joel have to take a step to the side.
So the three types of rest periods between your sets, whether you're running,
lifting, whatever. So there's a stress period.
That means that you will have a harder time to do the same
thing, or you will not be able to repeat it, right? That's interval training.
There is the super compensation period,
which means if you wait extra long time, you'll perform even better.
By for example, if you do a sat of pull-ups wait for 15 minutes,
you might be able to do more 15 minutes later.
And there is the ordinary period, which is, does,
you'll be able to repeat it over and over. So that's in coaching speakers,
skull, repeat training, repeat versus interval.
So we're trying to sustain that same level of performance for 40 minutes,
let's say.
So that's an example of how we develop mitochondria fast-twitch
fibers and the same thing we can do with kettlebell swings, the same thing.
You can do a work in Abbey bag and so on and so forth.